I bet you think this is nothing but a
cute little 12-in notebook but there's
far more to it than meets the
eye now I can check my emails and catch
up on Fallout and there's even more
check this out I can pop off the
keyboard and trackpad fold the screen
kick out the kickstand and now it's a
massive 17in IMAX enhanced HDR laptop
with a wireless keyboard and touchpad I
mean look at this thing it's hard to
believe it's started out the size of an
M1 MacBook and weighs just half as much
as hp's other premium 17in offerings and
the leathery little keyboard is even
shockingly usable for a folio style
device what's not to love well the price
tag for one thing but we're going to
talk about that later first there is so
much cool stuff crammed into this thing
that I just can't wait to show you guys
just like I can't wait to show you our
sponsor Ridge just when you thought
there well s couldn't get any cooler now
they've added Meg safe compatibility so
you can attach your wallet to your phone
absolute mad Lads check them out in the
description and transform your everyday
carry looking at it it's hard to believe
that the HP Spectre fold packs a 12
thread core i7 16 gigs of lpddr5 memory
a terabyte of PCI Express Gen 4 storage
from kokia almost 100 W hours of
batteries and an HDR OLED touchcreen
that starts out at a better than full HD
1920 x 1255 in clamshell mode and
expands to 2560 by 1920 in tablet and
desktop mode at an old school 4x3 aspect
ratio that turns out is actually pretty
great for productivity not only that but
it even outperformed hp's claims
reaching a whopping 500 50 nits in HDR
in our lab man we've got Wi-Fi 6E
Bluetooth 5.3 not one but two
Thunderbolt four ports audio by bang and
olivon a 5 megapixel webcam and a
battery that takes only 45 minutes to
get to a half charge this thing should
be a productivity monster especially if
you consider that when it's fully
charged HP claims the beefy batteries
should last you 15 and 1 half hours 14
and 1/4 hours 13 and 1/2 hours 12 and
1/2 hours well at least 11 and 3/4 hours
I I guess you can't be wrong about your
battery claims if you just put every
possible number on your marketing
collateral runtime Shenanigans aside
this thing looks pretty awesome on paper
and spoiler alert I ended up kind of
loving it but my initial Impressions
were well I don't want to say negative
so early in the video so let's call them
unpositive out of the box there is a
learning curve for sure you're reliant
on HP software for window Management in
all of the different modes and it kind
of stacks up on top of the default
Windows management so God help you if
you miss the introductory animation that
shows you the different configs and how
to use them once you get the hang of it
though the magnetic system for holding
the keyboard in its various positions is
pretty fine but what isn't is this
clumsy hack of a USB tether it allows
you to charge the keyboard in desktop
mode that's we're looking at right now
and that's definitely a good thing and
the Magnetic connection saved me from
snapping the connector off multiple
times but HP must have known that having
this loose wire just flapping around on
what is and I kid you not the most
expensive laptop in their entire lineup
is not a good look not even our new
cable management gear on LTT store.com
can save this one so I would like to see
HP find a way to charge the keyboard I
either with induction or with Pogo pins
in the Next Generation instead of using
this bajoran earring looking thing and I
hear you guys it's Bluetooth you idiot
unplug it and of course that's the
obvious solution but the Bluetooth was
unbelievably buggy on this thing failing
to stay paired sometimes when coming out
of sleep or switching between modes or
even failing to pair it all to make it
worse I'm getting these constant popups
about keyboard firmware updates I then
dutifully click yes and then it takes me
to an internal HP website that needs a
login but since I'm neither an HP
employee nor an HP business partner I
guess no update for me I mean hey I get
it HP you've only been selling laptops
for longer than I've been alive these
little details take time to get right to
be clear I'm a reviewer and I could
obviously escalate the issue but my job
is to review the product as you would
receive it and given how otherwise good
the keyboard typing experience was the
connectivity issues were a real Downer
with that said I understand some of the
compromises in this product like the
webcam in the age of remote work and
endless Zoom calls there just isn't an
ideal place to put a single camera on a
device like this it's going to be poorly
placed for at least one of the modes now
the obvious fix would be to add another
camera so that you've got one oh I don't
know right in the middle of the hinge or
maybe under the display but there not
really a lot of room inside this thing
for additional Hardware so a tiny webcam
somewhere more reasonable for a desktop
mode would be a welcome addition next
time but the sideways mounted one
realistically didn't bother me too much
unlike the pen it's usable but it's also
very losable and this might be an
unpopular opinion but I've always felt
that if you're going to give me a stylus
you need to give me a secure place to
keep it in clamshell mode it's supposed
to charge at the bottom edge of the fold
and it kind of sticks there with magnets
that is until you pull down the keyboard
into extended mode and knock the pen
into your lap or just I don't know dare
to move the machine there's also some
magnets kind of in the hinge back here
but it doesn't really stay put there
either so I guess it's time to dust off
the old high school pencil case roll
into the meeting with your super nice
expensive laptop and also your Pikachu
zipup I swear though the point of this
review is not to trash on this product
because I really did fall in love with
it by the end warts and all there is
nothing like rolling into that
aformentioned meeting and casually
slipping a 17-in productivity monster
out of your tablet sleeve sure it's not
4K but the 2560 X1 1920 resolution is
totally acceptable for a 17-in display
and obviously there's a crease in the
middle but has someone who's been daily
driving folding devices for the last
years I promise you guys you'll get used
to it quicker than you think and this
one is particularly non bothersome the
Spectre fold is just in its element in
this environment it's amazing for
note-taking it's great for multitasking
when the conversation drifts off topic
and it's even great for giving an
impromptu presentation in a pinch
because the screen is quite a bit bigger
even than it sounds think about it the
more square a screen is the more total
area that it has per diagonal inch and
it's also a head turner and a legitimate
conversation starter when every other
NPC in the meeting is using a freaking
MacBook it's just that there is a lot
that I would like to see improved before
I spent this kind of money on it the
weight for instance it's certainly light
for a 17in laptop but for a 12 or a 13in
which is realistically how I used it
most of the time it's pretty heavy and
at just under an inch thick when folded
up it reminds me more of the laptops of
my childhood than modern ones and I mean
that in more ways than one remember
those old glossy screens that had the
kind of ripple effect under direct light
yeah HP brought that back I didn't find
it too distracting day today but I also
can't promise that you'd get used to
this one like with the fold down the
middle and that's especially true if
you're working an open concept office
with a bunch of foot traffic behind you
on the plus side though that might
distract you from the cooling fan the
thermal design of this machine leaves a
lot to be desired at idle it's dead
quiet even silent but should you have
the audacity to do anything like say
conduct a zoom meeting it sounds like
well here I'll let you guys
listen now I could excuse that noise if
the performance absolutely rocked and it
should be pretty good the internals of
the Spectre fold are virtually identical
to the Asus Zenbook fold same CPU GPU
Ram speec max resolution and even
similar nvme drives but the performance
doesn't Rock in virtually every test the
Asus Zenbook fold outperformed the HP
Spectre fold with the only big exception
being of course battery life where the
HP outlasted the Asus by an hour in our
full screen endurance test and more than
2 hours at half screen and this seems to
come down to Thermal management while HP
had an edge in maximum clock speeds a
seus averaged about 300 MHz faster over
time and 100 MHz faster at the bottom
end HP sent over a disassembled unit for
us to investigate this was before we got
our CT scanner by the way and the
problem was immediately apparent that's
a cooler who do they think they are
apple with these guts no one expected it
to be a gaming Powerhouse and the
tradeoff for extra battery life is a
valid one and one you personally might
prefer but a shocking number of people
do like to play casual games or run
other somewhat intensive applications
and it's always painful for me to see
Hardware performing less than its best
on that note we fired up a couple of
games then just to see how it fared it
got a little confused about what
resolution it should be using it tried
to use desktop resolution in clamshell
mode for example but repositioning the
keyboard resolved that and then it did
manage a respectable average 60 FPS in
both rocket league and DOTA at 1080p so
not not for gamers confirmed but also
not for folks who need something
completely bug free or for folks who
need something very affordable it's
$5,000 for the one configuration that
from our understanding is because intel
only has one chip that is able to meet
the thermal requirements of this chassis
however with all of that said if you are
that special someone who saw this thing
and went oh my God that was made for me
and I absolutely can't wait for the
inevitably much better second gen I
can't say you're the only one now that
the review is done and I just auctioned
my daily driver framework laptop for
charity investment disclosure I think I
might just adopt this orphan designer
Breed Puppy and hope that it doesn't get
prematurely worn out from being folded
in half over and over and over again
while I eagerly await a second gen that
hopefully fixes all those little issues
and brings me to sheer Nirvana gigantic
screen meeting Bliss
just like I'm blissfully telling you
about our sponsor vessie here in
Vancouver the weather can be all over
the place bright and sunny one day to a
sudden downpour the next but thankfully
we have a secret weapon vessie they
claim their shoes are 100% waterproof
thanks to their diatex technology which
means even the most torrential storms
don't stand a chance the storm burst
shoes are now available in a lowprofile
form providing the warmth of a boot and
the comfort of a sneaker it's rugged
rubber out soole with extra grip means
you can take on on the trails Chase
those waterfalls or simply get to work
without a second thought head over to
v.com techtips and get 15% off your
first purchase if you guys like this
video maybe check out the 10 reasons
that I daily drive a foldable or at
least did when I made that video now I'm
just back on my broken note 9